---
layout: documentation
title: Documentation 1.3.1.
headline: Documentation 1.3.1. version
description: Documentation gvNIX 1.3.1.version
tags: [version, doc, changelog]
documentation: true
category:
    - en
lang: en

badges:

  # Customize the documentation links. Delete any entries that do not apply.
  guides:
    - name: Documentation guide
      url:  http://localhost:4000/assets/doc/release-1.3.1-index.pdf
      icon: book

  links:
    - name: Executable code
      url:  https://sourceforge.net/projects/gvnix/files/gvNIX-1.3.1-RELEASE.zip/download
      icon: arrow-circle-down

    - name: Source code
      url:  https://github.com/DISID/gvnix
      icon: github

    - name: Issues (JIRA)
      url:  
      icon: leaf

    - name: StackOverflow
      url:  http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/gvnix
      icon: stack-overflow

---

<section id="table-of-contents" class="toc">
  <header>
    <h3>Documentation gvNIX 1.3.1.version</h3>
  </header>
<div id="drawer" markdown="1">
*  Auto generated table of contents
{:toc}
</div>
</section><!-- /#table-of-contents -->



gvNIX 1.3.1 released
=====================

The gvNIX development team is pleased to announce that gvNIX 1.3.1 has
been released.

This release is built over Spring Roo 1.2.4. It includes critical bug
fixes and new features.

In this new release are featured Datatables new functionalities,
Security Providers using digital certificates, etc..

Let’s take a tour over gvNIX 1.3.1.

Improvements
------------

**Datatables**

-   Use double click to select a row instead of single click.

-   Automatic Scroll to next detail (if exists) when user clicks a row
    on Datatable master.

-   When Datatable is filtered using general filter, the results that
    match will be highlighted to know which field/s are matching.

-   When the user enter some value on general filter Datatable input, is
    going to display a different background color to know that the
    Datatable is filtered.

-   Adding rowOnTop functionality on Datatable Details

-   Fixed some javascript errors that appears on gvNIX-1.3.0-RELEASE

-   Fixing persistence problems modifying Datatable persistence method
    to generate unique table identifier.

-   Fixing rowclick on Datatables that not has datatable details.

-   Fixing errors on rowOnTop first version.

-   Fixing erros with datatable redraws.


-   Fixing datatable filter functions to use number locale on filtering
    and searc numbers on text columns.

-   Fixing error that displays details of removed master element.

**Security**

-   Adding new functionality on SAFE Security Provider to use digital
    certificate to access to gvNIX applications.

**Roo**

-   Fixed createForm method that creates invalid dependencies on
    controller when exists an entity with more than one field with the
    same entity type.

**Batch Services**

-   Fixed problems with IN clause when subquery returned more than 500
    records

**Reference documentation update:**

-   Documentation complete review

Are you Rooing?

Enjoy with gvNIX and Spring Roo.

gvNIX Team!
