---
layout: documentation
title: gvNIX 1.5.1.RC3
description: New gvNIX 1.5.1.RC3 Release Candidate, bug fixes and improvements
tags: [version, doc, release]
documentation: true
category:
    - en
lang: en

badges:

  # Customize the documentation links. Delete any entries that do not apply.
  guides:
    - name: Documentation guide
      # the url includes http://www.gvnix.org/assets/doc/
      url:  gvnix-1.5.1.RC3-reference-docs.pdf
      icon: book

  links:
    - name: Executable code
      url:  http://sourceforge.net/projects/gvnix/files/gvNIX-1.5.1.RC3.zip/download
      icon: arrow-circle-down

    - name: Source code
      url:  https://github.com/gvSIGAssociation/gvnix
      icon: github

#     - name: Issues (JIRA)
#      url:
#      icon: leaf

    - name: Support
      url:  http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/gvnix
      icon: stack-overflow

---

# gvNIX 1.5.1.RC3 released

The gvNIX development team is pleased to announce that gvNIX 1.5.1.RC3 has
been released.

This release is built over Spring Roo 1.3.2. It provides bug fixes and  minor enhancements
on Geo component, Loupe Component, Menu and Theme.

This new release includes minor improvements on Geo component
and bug fixes on the Loupe Component, JQuery and Datatables component,
as well as the revision and updating of documentation.

Let’s take a tour over gvNIX 1.5.1.RC3.


## Improvements and fixed errors

<section id="table-of-contents" class="toc">
<div id="drawer" markdown="1">
*  Auto generated table of contents
{:toc}
</div>
</section><!-- /#table-of-contents -->


### Datatables Component

* Fixed error in 3 levels of detail.

### JQuery

* Added support for _time_ field in the date selection _datapicker_.

### Loupe Component

* Fixed error for loading Loupe field in the inline edition.


### Geo Component

* Added support for cleaning labels layer with the cleaning tool.
* Added improvement to place the focus on the map to click on a global tool.
* Fixed error on Popup layer in _entity_simple_ of lines.
* Fixed error in the color legend lines in _entity_field_ layer.
* Added JavaDoc in _QuerydslUtilsBeanGeoImpl_ and _DatatablesUtilsBeanGeoImpl_ classes.
* Fixed error on _showOnlyList_ method. New methods _ShowOnlyListMapFilter_ and _selectorMapFilter_.
* Improved deselection tools. Tool "hand" by default.
* Added support to generate tooltip for Geo tools.
* Improved CSS styles for the TOC display on mobile devices.
* Added refactor selection event layers _Fancytree_.

### General

* Fixed error duplicate repository _gvNIX External Libraries repo_ in _pom.xml_.

### Reference documentation

* Documentation complete review

  * Added _--srs_ parameter on _field geo_ command.
  * Updated Spring Security link.


Are you Rooing?

Enjoy with gvNIX and Spring Roo.

gvNIX Team!


